---
layout: post
title: "CLI Gem"
date: 2016-03-01
---

The final project for Object Oriented Ruby at Learn-Verified is to build a CLI Gem. I decided to build a gem that finds information 
about summer STEM camps for high school girls. I have a 15 (almost 16) year old daughter and she wants to go to some STEM camps
this summer, so I've already been googling around. I was hoping to find one website to scrape for all the information, but wasn't
that lucky. I had already created a google document listing 7 camps that my daughter was interested in, so I ended up scraping the
websites for those 7 STEM camps.

Prior to starting the project, I watched the video walkthrough of building a CLI gem, and I ended up pretty closely following 
the pattern Avi used for the DailyDeal gem. I used 'bundle gem girls_stem_camps' to stub out the structure for me.

lib/girls_stem_camps.rb contains all the require statements for Nokogiri, open-uri and the other ruby files (camp.rb, cli.rb and 
version.rb)

bin/girls-stem-camps calls cli.rb

cli.rb puts the initial "Welcome", lists the name and location of the 7 STEM camps (with a call to camp.rb which scrapes the camp
data), and asks the user for input

With that input, more information is given to the user about the camp. The user can then list the camps again, get more 
information about a specific camp, or exit.

This was a really fun project to do. The scraping was kind of ugly at times, because the information I needed (cost, for example) was often buried in a paragraph of text. But I liked it.




